>> Mike North: Debugging Node
with editors.
It turns out that this is bad.
We as JavaScript developers,
as web developers,
we have learned to tolerate
a pretty miserable experience.
>> Mike North: If you work with people
who have been back end developers or
game developers and
they start to move towards the web,
all of this context switching that we're
so used to, this is really horrifying.
And it hurts our productivity and it
means that we have to learn like seven or
eight different tools as
supposed to like one or two.
And we've been trying for a while to
consolidate around a single tool, so
here's a little showcase.
This is NetBeans which
I used a long time ago,
and I used it a lot and
actually developed on their platform.
But they had an embedded little browser
here with sort of an elements tree and
sort of looks like a browser.
But it was never really standards
compliant, really, really basic.
There was very limited support for
debugging.
But the benefit here was
you're in one environment and
you don't have to have two windows
open with a multi-monitor setup.
It is one workspace that sort of works.
So, never really took off.
So this is the flip side.
This is Chrome adding features
to try to make their dev
tools look more like an editor.
So we've got like syntax highlighting and
different themes and now you can
drop folders into your sources,
folder in dev tools.
But frankly, I do not expect these
like subset of browser functionality,
dev tools, to become the place
where we're all writing our code.
If there is a single destination
to do this kind of stuff,
I doubt it's going to be in the bottom
50% of your browser Windows, right?
>> Mike North: So this is interesting.
This was a pretty promising step forward
and I learned about this the first time I
started working with
the Visual Studio code team.
I was up at Microsoft,
they have developer days once in a while.
And they just survey the open source
community about what features are you
interested, where should
we deploy our resources?
They even had exercises where they
gave us like points to spend.
And we 'd go up on walls and
say, debugging web applications.
And I've heard a bunch of points in
automated testing around like Cordova
style apps where it's not just
the JavaScript that's being tested.
Test the whole app.
And they were working on this
simultaneously to Visual Studio code,
just trying to chase down some
way to get a good solution here.
>> Mike North: It worked.
It was incredibly difficult to set up.
It is clearly a hack, right?
Because everything here it is,
>> Mike North: In our JavaScript call
stack we've got lines,
line numbers starting one, two, three.
Line two is the buttons.
This is all text with a little bit of
decoration around it, trying to simulate
a UI using Unicode characters to try
to create rounded button corners and
things like that.
And what's more, the step-in-step-over,
that's all built into this omni-box,
the single drop down that drives Sublime.
So that they managed to implement
everything that's necessary for
this protocol to work but
it was brittle, really, really,
hard to set up, and the contributors
to this effort had to know Perl and
JavaScript and
browser internals really well.
And so
you're starting to approach a really,
really small subset of developers
that can maintain this kind of thing.
>> Mike North: So yeah, this was cool.
It didn't really work incredibly well but
it was a very promising step to take.
So here, this is a world's better than
other approaches we've just looked at.
This is Adam, with some plugins, and
you can see, we have real buttons there.
Break points are obvious, we have
proper UI for call stacks and things.
This is not like an editor tab that we're
trying to squeeze a call stack into.
This is starting to look right.
However, you'll note that like
this is still very basic.
This is step in, step out,
step forward and stop.
And over time more advanced debugging
functionality is being added.
And so you may be able to get the basics
right, but this is not a theme.
This is not add Spotify to your editor so
that you can change which
track your listening to.
And by the way, I love those extensions,
they're fantastic.
>> Mike North: But you want something like
this to be handled by a really dedicated
team that is committed to
comprehensively solving this problem.
And that's where you want the following
things to be handled properly.
Source maps are really hard to get right.
For really smart people it is
hard to get source maps right.
They're broken all over the place.
They're broken in Ember and in React.
And I don't mean for
the basic Hello World cases, but
you can do things that will just
make it so you're in this familiar
situation that I can guarantee
everyone in here who's tried to debug
stuff in a real app you set a break point
and then you look at your dev tools.
And it thinks you're on the last line
of this file which is an empty line and
there's no code there.
But clearly there's something there.
If you start logging stuff in the console
you're not where it thinks you are.
So source maps can break.
Advance debugging features, we're gonna
look at something we can do in Node
which is amazing,
where you can like pick a stack frame and
restart execution at the top
of that stock frame again.
So this is something
that only node can do.
Chakra, which is the JavaScript runtime
for Edge, it's another Microsoft project,
there they have something
called time travel debugging.
So that's another ability to go backwards
and to see what happened earlier.
I overshot, take me a few steps back.
And anyone who's ever overshot a problem
where you find your break point, or
you say stop on all exceptions and
then you find you're in an error, and
getting back upstream to where that
error was thrown is really difficult.
So, handling asynchrony is hard.
Finding that you're in an error that
happened because some random promise
failed, particularly,
I work on a bunch of Ember apps where we
have something called the Ember run loop.
I have not worked with fibers enough
in this new version of React but
it's another scheduling idea.
And without handling
asynchronous call stacks well,
where you're not just saying,
what happened?
Let's trace this back to our roots.
It's a function that was
passed to set time at zero.
That is not useful information.
You wanna know, well,
what scheduled that task?
What was the async thing that
led to another async thing,
that finally led to this blowing up?
And I would not trust a community-sourced
debugger to handle all of
the important cases there.
And then, finally, multiple threads and
multiple debugging sessions.
So that was something Sublime
could never do, where you'd say,
I've got a web worker or
I've got a service worker.
More than one thread going on,
I've got break points.
Do we wanna freeze them all at once or
do we want to just freeze one thread and
let the rest of them run?
There are good uses for
both of those ideas, but
you need to be able to
handle that properly.
And then finally,
multiple debugging sessions.
I've never seen that handled right.
And we're gonna do that today
where we've basically got Node and
Chrome, and we wanna be able to,
within the same environment,
transition from one to
the other pretty seamlessly.